[DX-2057] Revised JWT docs for 5.9.0 (#6599)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/basic-config-and-security/security/authentication-authorization/json-web-tokens.md

JWTs are issued by third party Identity Providers (IdP), with the appropriate claims being set by the IdP according to the client's permissions. The client presents the JWT as the access token in the API request to Tyk Gateway. Tyk validates the JWT signature against a JSON Web Key (JWK) retrieved from the IdP and, assuming the JWT is valid, then applies access policies according to the scope-to-policy mapping declared in the API definition.

A key advantage of JWT authentication is that Tyk does not store any user credentials or session data.

### Key Benefits

- **Stateless Authentication**: Eliminates the need for server-side session storage, improving scalability.
- **Flexible Integration**: Works with multiple identity providers including Auth0, Okta, and custom JWT issuers.
- **Enhanced Security**: Supports multiple signature validation methods (RSA, ECDSA, HMAC) and claim verification.
- **Granular Access Control**: Leverage JWT claims for policy enforcement and scope-based permissions.

> - **Performance Optimized**: Efficient token validation with minimal overhead and support for JWKS caching.

Author: These are Tyk + JWT benefits, I'll review the wording to make that clear. The intention of this page, while explaining a bit about JWTs should be focused on how to use them with Tyk (don't want to give authoritative explanation of the technology in the docs - that's better in a blog or external)

> ## Quick Start: Securing APIs with Auth0 or Keycloak

Author: This is because previously we had pages giving step-by-step instructions for integrating with Keycloak and Auth0. When the previous docs reorg happened it all ended up on one page with massive duplication and lack of narrative structure. The preferred layout for our docs pages is intro - quick start - deeper dive so that's the model I've followed here. I've chosen to use the Keycloak/Auth0 integrations in the quick start because I don't want to make the page messy again by having a "basic" example here and then significant repetition further down (making the page seemingly endless again).

    Subject identity claim: Set to `sub`
    JWKS Endpoint: Enter [your JWKS URI for your IdP]({{< ref "basic-config-and-security/security/authentication-authorization/json-web-tokens#1-configure-your-identity-provider-to-obtain-your-jwks-uri" >}})
    Policy claim: Set to `pol`
    Default policy: Select `JWT Auth Policy` (the policy you created previously)
    Clock Skew (optional): Set to accommodate time differences (e.g. `10`)
    Authentication Token Location: `header`
    Header Name: `Authorization`
    Strip Authorization Data: `Enabled`
5. Click **Save API**

#### 4. Test your API

1. Obtain a JWT from your IdP
2. Make a request to your API providing the JWT as a Bearer token in the `Authorization` header; Tyk will validate the JWT using the JWKS that it retrieves from your JWKS URI
3. Observe that the request is successful

```bash
    curl -X GET {API URL}  -H "Accept: application/json" -H "Authorization: Bearer {token}"
```

## How JWT Authentication works with Tyk

This diagram outlines the flow when using JWT Auth to secure access to your API.

{{< img src="/img/diagrams/diagram_docs_JSON-web-tokens@2x.png" alt="JSON Web Tokens Flow" >}}

> Once Alice has obtained a JWT (steps 1, 2, 3) they will present that with their request to Tyk Gateway (step 4).

Author: Addressed in update

With the JWT method selected, you'll need to configure Tyk to handle the specific configuration of JSON Web Tokens that clients will be providing. All of the JWT specific configuration is performed within the [authentication.jwt]({{< ref "api-management/gateway-config-tyk-oas#jwt" >}}) object in the Tyk Vendor Extension.

### Locating the JWT in the Request

> The OpenAPI Specification's `securitySchemes` mechanism allows you to specify the location of the JWT, but only one (for example, in the request header). In some scenarios an API might need to support multiple potential locations to support different clients.

Author: ```suggestion
The OpenAPI Specification's `securitySchemes` mechanism allows you to specify the location of the JWT, for example in the request header. In some scenarios different clients might provide the token in different locations, for example in a query parameter. 
```

- in the session metadata as `TykJWTSessionID`

Note that session objects can be cached to improve performance, so the identity extraction is only performed on the first request with a JWT, or when the cache is refreshed.

In this example, `skipKid` has been set to `true`, so Tyk checks the `identityBaseField` and determines that the value in the custom claim `user_id` within the JWT should be used as the identity for the session object.

```yaml
x-tyk-api-gateway:
  server:
    authentication:
      securitySchemes:
        jwtAuth:
          skipKid: true
          identityBaseField: user_id
```

#### Identifying the Tyk policies to be applied

[Security Policies]({{< ref "api-management/policies" >}}) are applied (or mapped) to the session object to configure authorization for the request. Policies must be [registered]({{< ref "api-management/policies#how-you-can-create-policies" >}}) with Tyk, such that they have been allocated a unique *Tyk Policy Id*.

Tyk supports three different types of policy mapping, which are applied in this priority order:

1. Direct policy mapping
2. Scope policy mapping
3. Default policy mapping

> Note that, whilst a *default policy* must be configured for each API using JWT Auth, this will only be applied if there are no policies mapped in step 1 or 2. If *scope policies* are activated, these will be applied on top of the previously applied direct policies as explained in more detail in the section on [combining policies]({{< ref "basic-config-and-security/security/authentication-authorization/json-web-tokens#combining-policies" >}}).

Author: Direct policy mapping and Scope policy mapping (lines 398-400)

|--------|---------------------|----------------|----------------------------------|
| HMAC   | symmetric           | Shared secret  | API definition                   |
| RSA    | asymmetric          | Public key     | API definition, JWKS endpoint    |
| ECDSA  | asymmetric          | Public key     | API definition, JWKS endpoint    |

#### RSA Supported Algorithms

Both RSA & PSA classes of RSA algorithms are supported by Tyk, including:
- RS256
- RS384
- RS512 
- PS256
- PS384
- PS512

Read more about the differences between RSA & PSA classes of RSA algorithms [here](https://www.encryptionconsulting.com/overview-of-rsassa-pss/).

To use either - simply select the "RSA" signing method in your API definition, and Tyk will use the appropriate algorithm based on the key you provide.

#### Secret Management

You must provide Tyk with the secret or key to be used to validate the incoming JWTs.

- for the asymmetric methods (RSA and ECDSA) the public key can be stored in the API definition or Tyk can retrieve from a public JSON Web Key Sets (JWKS) endpoint (supporting dynamic rotation of keys in the JWKS)

> - for symmetric encryption (HMAC), the secret is shared between the client and Tyk and so is stored within the API definition not on the public JWKS server

Reviewer: this would worth a UI adjustment, to hide the jwks uri section, or even a BE validation where source field is required if HMAC is used
